---
layout: page
share-title: sword quest 1
share-description: sword quest 1
---
The spell chamber of the Wizard Yirdahn is filled with the blue flaring hiss of wild magic, and the crackling spark of loose electricity flies violently about the room. Lord Durr of Terverni and Cedd, Korvar of his personal Ten, enter slowly. They stand watchful and alert as the circle of haggard magicians attempts to contain the thing that the great Yirdahn has finally brought into their midst. 

Five white-robed men surround a pentagram of silver inlaid into the obsidian floor, one at each point. Another man is circling, hands scrolling quickly through the air, his fingers leaving traces of powdery light. In their center crouches a snarling Demon, eyes aflame. The chanting of the Wizards pulses heavily upon the angry beast. Even to these two warriors unskilled in the Sorcerer’s art, it is apparent that the black fiend before them is far from under control. 

The Demon turns slowly, majestically about, looking for a way to escape. His tail lashes out across one section of the star. A howl of pain rends the air and a Wizard staggers, his robe smoking as the silver on the point of the star chars to black ash. The Demon grins and lunges for the man, but the circling Wizard has closed the gap with a net of power. 

The creature pulls back, a sooty blackness smoldering about its feet. Cedd can see beauty in the languid grace of its movements as knotted shoulder muscles raise the broad, gleaming head. The malevolence of its expression deepens as it stands unmoving, staring with lusterless black eyes at the warriors. 

Cedd stares back, caught by curiosity and fear, and their eyes lock. Fire, spawned by unearthly heat, dances to life in the depths of the Demon’s eyes. Unmoving, both stand unwilling or unable to look away. Then, to Cedd’s amazement, the expression on the scarred and wasted features transforms to wild fear and the mouth opens in a silent scream. 

Yirdahn pauses, also turning to these warriors who have caught the Demon’s attention. Sparing them only a curt nod, he continues to pace nervously, puzzled at the sudden change in the unearthly creature before him. 

Cedd breaks free of the hypnotic glare only to find a white mist forming around his legs and those of Lord Durr beside him. It quickly solidifies into a thick, ankle-deep syrup. Trying to step forward, Durr finds his feet all but trapped by the sticky puddle and cries out in surprise. 

The cry distracts Yirdahn. The Wizard looks puzzled for an instant and then annoyed. With a gesture, he banishes the strange liquid and turns back to the pentagram. 

In that brief instant, the Demon rises, moving slowly, and from his hand thrusts darkness. The muscles on its back strain as the creature fights against the silver webbing hanging about it. Cedd is startled to smell the odor of seared flesh and gasps as the flaming clawed hand of the Demon extends out past the pentagram to dance in a blur of conjuring. 

Near one of the Wizards the floor has begun to boil, the rock bubbling and spitting. Emerging from this unnatural inferno is a hideous creature less than half the height of a man. The first is still pulling itself free of the molten rock when a second begins to drag itself into sight. 

The creatures are small parodies of the Demon that has summoned them. Their features are misshapen in contrast with the evil beauty of their master. Tiny wings flap uselessly as the first one moves to attack the nearby Wizard. 

The ancient words of Yirdahn’s chant echo off the walls. The Wizard on the point of the pentagram watches in desperation as the imp moves toward him. To fight the imp will break what is left of his focus on the containment spell, freeing the Demon instantly. Eyes wide, he tries to concentrate only on his task. 

Seeing, if not fully understanding, the danger, Cedd draws his sword and rushes to place himself between the imp and the Wizard.

IMP
To Hit Cedd: 13
To Be Hit: 14
Hit Points: 6
Damage with claws: 1 D6; poison tail: 2 D6
When the imp succeeds in hitting with its claws, it will also attempt to strike with its poisoned tail. This is the only time it will use its tail. A second “to hit” roll is made for the tail. If it does hit, Cedd must roll to see if the poison affects him. To do this, roll 3 D6 and compare the total to Cedd’s value for Constitution. If the total rolled is the same or less, the tail has no effect. If the total is greater, the tail does 2 D6 of damage.

If Cedd wins the battle, turn to section 2.

If Cedd loses the battle, turn to section 3. 

