---
layout: page
share-title: sword quest 2
share-description: sword quest 2
---
Only by using his greater reach is Cedd able to keep the stunted monster at bay. The imp is small, but quick and inhumanly strong. Its claws tear the metal of Cedd’s shield as he blocks a blow. 

The warrior slashes down only to have the nimble imp duck under his blade. The creature's tail twitches, the stinger dripping a fluid that hisses and burns the floor as it falls. 

Twice more the imp rushes at him, tearing its claws over the rapidly interposed shield. Both opponents fall back and pause, unaware of the greater battle between Wizard and Demon culminating around them. 

Cedd feels less pain than pull as his chain mail shreds under the claws of the second imp. Even as he begins to spin and face the second monster, the first jumps toward him. Reflexively, Cedd raises his shield and feels the impact of the monster upon it. A flash of sunlight on a sword blade assures him Durr is dealing fairly with the second opponent. 

Given a second to think while the imp scrambles 

to its feet, Cedd realizes he has assumed he must attack the creature with a downward stroke because he is taller. Since he towers over it, the creature js expecting an attack from above. Watching the imp approach, its eyes fixed upon his sword, the young warrior sees his opening. 

Threatening with a movement of his sword, Cedd lashes out with his boot. The toe connects solidly with the imp and sends it reeling against the wall. Before it can recover, it is skewered on the point of his sword, dying as silently as it fought. 

Only after the battle is over does Cedd become aware of the blood staining a gash in his chain mail. Turning to survey the room, he is greeted by Dun’s smile as the older man wipes his blade on the upper half of the other imp. He smiles his thanks, knowing the older warrior will understand. 

“Close one, Cedd,” Durr comments, relieved. “You killed the one on you and I got the other. Ugly, werent they?” 

Somewhere Cedd finds the means to summon a wan smile. 

“And the Demon?” he asks, looking again at the pentagram. The Demon stands immobile, frozen in midaction, hatred and fear still visible on its face. 

“Completely trapped. At least for now,” the older warrior assures him. Yirdahn nods in agreement. “Seems the effort to summon those imps,” Durr adds, 

“gave the Wizards a chance to close the pentagram. Yirdahn can’t figure what made it take the chance. 

Turn to section 4.